## Customer Segmentation (Practice Project)
Can information about an acquisition channel give information about how much students will learn? For example, are Twitter (X) groups more or less likely to study than those from Instagram? Or are students from the US more likely to have heard about us through friends or social media?

With this analysis:
### Goal of the project:
1. To understand if there is a relationship between different groups of customers based on information we have about them.
2. Moreover, this analysis will group all existing members and give us insights into trends, such as overall groups from different sources. This can inform the marketing team and         provide insights into where to invest more resources during marketing campaigns.

### Process:
#### Exploratory Data Analysis:
What we know about the dataset?

It’s a CSV based on 365's database, where it has combined information from an onboarding survey, student engagement data, and the customer lifetime value.

The dataset consists of student information of over 3,800 individuals from the 365 program. The data has been preprocessed and in addition, the volume of the dataset has been restricted and anonymised to protect the privacy of the customers. 										
										
| **Variable**      | **Data type** | **Range**                | **Description**                                                                                                                                                           |
|-------------------|---------------|--------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| minutes   watched | numerical     | Integer                  | The number of minutes a student has watched since joining the program                                                                                                     |
| CLV               | numerical     | Integer                  | The Customer Lifetime Value, or CLV, shows the total amount of revenue generated by that customer                                                                         |
| Region            | categorical   | {0,1, 2}                 | This is the geographical region where the student comes from. 1. USA, Canada, United Kingdom, Australia 2. Western Europe 3. Rest of the World                            |
| Channel           | categorical   | {1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8} | This is the channel through which the customer has learned about the 365 program 1. Google  2. Facebook 3. Youtube 4. LinkedIn 5. Twitter 6. Instagram 7. Friend 8. Other |	

Steps Performed during EDA:
1. Data Loading and Exploration
2. Data Cleaning and Preprocessing
3. Feature Engineering
4. Data Viz and Correlation Analysis

#### Model Implementation:
Implemented two clustering techniques: K-means and Hierarchical Clustering.

Opted for the results of hierarchical clustering.

Possible reasons why the results of the two algorithms might differ:
Different methodologies: Hierarchical clustering builds a tree (or dendrogram) of clusters by successively splitting or merging them. The decision to split or merge can be based on various algorithms and criteria. On the other hand, k-means tries to find a predetermined number of clusters (k) that minimizes the within-cluster variance.

Initial setup sensitivity: K-means is highly sensitive to initial starting conditions—i.e., the initial placement of the centroid of each cluster. Different runs give different results. Hierarchical clustering is deterministic and will always provide the same result with the same data.

Cluster shape: K-means works best with spherical and evenly sized clusters. It might not do a good job if the clusters have irregular shapes, varying sizes, or densities. Hierarchical clustering does not have these assumptions.

#### Model Evaluation and results:
Created a summary table to analyze the algorithm's results and the resulting clustering to group the data by segments. Additionally, added the number of observations it contains and the proportion of these observations for each segment.

Anglo-Saxon - USA, Canada, United Kingdom, Australia
WE - Western Europe
World - Rest of the world

Clusters/ segments were named accordingly after analysing the summary table as:
| **Cluster**      | **No of Observations** | **Description** 														  |
|------------------|------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|Instagram Explorers   |289			    | These customers are from all regions, with a slightly larger group from the rest of the world. They discovered the platform through Instagram and have a relatively moderate level of engagement and expenditure.         |
|LinkedIn Networkers    |391			    | This segment consists entirely of customers from the rest of the world who have heard about your platform via LinkedIn. They have a high level of engagement but slightly lower spending.         |
|Friends' Influence   |424			    | This group primarily comprises customers from the rest of the world who discovered the platform through friends. They have high engagement and moderate spending.         |
|Google-YouTube Mix   |939			    | These customers from the rest of the world discovered the platform via a mix of Google and YouTube. They have very high engagement and moderate spending.|
|Anglo-Saxon Multi-Channel   |1055			    | This segment includes customers from the US, Canada, The UK, and Australia who discovered the platform through a mix of Google, YouTube, and LinkedIn. They have high engagement and higher-than-average spending.         |
|European Multi-Channel   |372			    | These customers are from Western Europe and heard about the platform from various sources, including Google, YouTube, LinkedIn, and friends. They have high engagement and the highest spending level.         |
|Twitter Devotees   |58		    |This small group of customers discovered the platform via Twitter. They’re from all regions, with a majority from the rest of the world. They have the lowest engagement but moderate spending.         |
|Facebook Followers   |306			    | This group mainly heard about the platform from Facebook. They are from all regions but predominantly from the rest of the world. They have the highest level of engagement and moderate spending.         |


#### Data Interpretation:
Clusters: 
1. Around 48% of the users are from the US, Canada, United Kingdom, Australia and Western Europe ,and over 52% from the rest of the world.
   
2. Focusing on the smallest segment/cluster, Twitter Devotees, with only 58 observations. Based on the characteristics of the cluster, concluded that the efforts on Twitter bore 
   little fruit. 
   Suggestion would be to reduce spending there to a minimum. And invest little resources to upload content to the platform because the results are unsatisfactory, perhaps due to 
   the turmoil of the platform in recent months. Marketing could become an early adopter of a new competitor platform, such as Threads.

3. Examining those who frequent Facebook. Although they’re not the most significant segment—close to 8% of all customers, with average spending in the lower half compared to the 
   rest—the Facebook group is the most dedicated to learning. Their average watch time is over an impressive 2,700 minutes.

4.In terms of countries, it’s a mixed bag, with a little under a third from the US, Canada, or United Kingdom and over 60% from the rest of the world. It would be worth exploring 
  how these students interact with the platform and why their group is more motivated to study. But this would be the focus of a different analysis on engagement.
  
Performance by region: 
1. Overall, the Anglo-Saxon channel has the best performance. Customers from the USA, Canada, The UK, and Australia make up the largest customer segment from that region. And the 
   Google-YouTube Mix has the second largest segment, with over 900 customers from that region. The second largest area is the rest of the world.

2. The fewest customers are from Western Europe. Considering the initial hypothesis of exact spending for all three regions, it is concluded that Western Europe’s marketing 
   efforts are insufficient. At the same time, it was observed that this segment has the highest CLV, so addressing this region and improving performance is crucial.
   
CLV: 
1. The two highest-paying clusters are the Anglo-Saxon Multichannel and the European Multichannel. The European countries top the list of spending. When looked at the channels—through which these two segments come to the platform—it was seen a mix between Google, YouTube, and LinkedIn.
   
Based on that information, it is advised marketing to focus on these acquisition channels for these regions and increase spending. This would be worthwhile because the CLV of these customers is the highest across the customer segments—meaning they are worth pursuing.

And what about the remaining regions and their channel of acquisition?

For the rest of the world, LinkedIn is the most successful channel in terms of conversion, followed by Facebook, which is why it should be the primary source for attracting customers from these regions. LinkedIn is a platform that provides excellent organic reach; many students share their certificates and spread the word organically.








